# CommonAmigos
A bilingual goal-oriented agent that can converse in Spanish–English code-switching with human users.
An accompanying dataset.

Ahn, E., Jimenez, C., Tsvetkov, Y., & Black, A. (2020). What Code-Switching Strategies are Effective in Dialogue Systems?. Proceedings of the Society for Computation in Linguistics, 3(1), 308-318.
[PDF](https://scholarworks.umass.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1164&context=scil)

Email Emily at eahn [at] uw.edu with questions.


## Data

The `data/` folder contains 10 folders (each corresponding to 1 batch released on crowdsourcing platforms).
Each folder contains the following 6 files:

* chat.json: pure chats
* surv.json: qualitative survey (key to questions given in file `surv_questions_list.txt`)
* qual.tsv: qualitative survey in tsv form
* lid.tsv: hand-annotated Language ID of each token from user.
	* {0 = SP, 1 = EN, 2 = neither}
	* NOTE: all tokens in these LID files have been lower-cased.
* .html: visualization of chats and surveys

### Process and Visualize

To begin processing and poking into the data with python, use methods defined in `processing_tools.py`, mainly `load_all_data("data/files_list_com.txt")`.
Python file was written with Python 2.7 but should be compatible with Python 3.

To visualize all data according to Agent Strategy, see html files in `viz_batches/`.
Chats are redundant to ones in `data/*/*.html`, but simply organized differently.

### Miscellaneous Files

* `strategy_map.txt` informs mapping of Agent strategy ("style") from the paper to these files.
	* We originally had a different naming convention of these strategies.
	* For example, Insertional EN > SP (Spanish as matrix language, with insertions of English, the embedded language) was "SP lex", under the broader strategy of "Content" code-switching.

* `data/bot_lid_tags.tsv` and `data/files_list_bot.txt` are for provided if you want to account for the words generated by the agent.
The second file can be loaded with the processing tools.


## Code for Full Dialogue System

Emily's Spanish-English [fork](https://github.com/emilyahn/cocoa) of the original English-only MutualFriends task is still under construction.
Please reach out if you plan to use it!
We have collaborators working on a Hindi-English extension of this system!